README.md, before:

# Game of Life Noah_Assedou CDOF4

## Project Description
The **Game of Life** is a cellular automaton devised by mathematician John Horton Conway. This console-based implementation uses `#` to represent live cells and spaces to represent dead cells. Each generation evolves based on the states of its neighboring cells, following Conway's rules:

1. A live cell with fewer than two live neighbors dies (underpopulation).
2. A live cell with two or three live neighbors survives.
3. A live cell with more than three live neighbors dies (overpopulation).
4. A dead cell with exactly three live neighbors becomes a live cell (reproduction).

This project serves as an introduction to creating and contributing to open-source projects.

## How to Run the Project

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.7 or higher

### Steps to Run
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/noahassd/game_of_life-noah-CDOF4.git
   cd game_of_life-noah-CDOF4
   ```
2. Run the program:
   ```bash
   python game_of_life.py
   ```

The simulation will start in the terminal, and you can exit by pressing `Ctrl + C`.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update with how to contribute in README.md

README.md, after:

# Game of Life Noah_Assedou CDOF4

## Project Description
The **Game of Life** is a cellular automaton devised by mathematician John Horton Conway. This console-based implementation uses `#` to represent live cells and spaces to represent dead cells. Each generation evolves based on the states of its neighboring cells, following Conway's rules:

1. A live cell with fewer than two live neighbors dies (underpopulation).
2. A live cell with two or three live neighbors survives.
3. A live cell with more than three live neighbors dies (overpopulation).
4. A dead cell with exactly three live neighbors becomes a live cell (reproduction).

This project serves as an introduction to creating and contributing to open-source projects.

## How to Run the Project

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.7 or higher

### Steps to Run
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/noahassd/game_of_life-noah-CDOF4.git
   cd game_of_life-noah-CDOF4
   ```
2. Run the program:
   ```bash
   python game_of_life.py
   ```

The simulation will start in the terminal, and you can exit by pressing `Ctrl + C`.
## Contribution Guide

### How to Contribute
1. **Fork** the repository and clone it to your local machine.
2. Create a new branch for your changes:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b your-feature-branch
   ```
3. Make your changes and commit them:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Describe your changes"
   ```
4. Push your changes to your forked repository:
   ```bash
   git push origin your-feature-branch
   ```
5. Create a pull request from your branch to the main repository.

### Contribution Ideas
- Improve performance by optimizing neighbor calculations.
- Add new features such as different starting patterns or adjustable grid sizes.
- Enhance the documentation or create a user-friendly guide.

### Reporting Issues
Feel free to open an issue on the repository if you encounter bugs or have ideas for improvements. Please ensure your issue includes:
- A clear title
- A detailed description
- Steps to reproduce the problem (if reporting a bug)
## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
